This is a list of functions for working with the FLOWSHEETVALUEFACT.csv file and the FLOWSHEETROWDIM.txt file.
All of these functions were created by Samuel Zetumer (samuel.zetumer@ucsf.edu, 858 922 2943). He is not particularly
proud of any of them, so feel free to improve upon them.

PRELIMINARY STEPS:
1) The FLOWSHEETROWDIM.txt file needs to be converted to a file that can easily be read by read.csv.
There are many ways to do this. As the file currently reads, it uses white space to demarcate values.
Open the file, highlight the whitespace, and replace it with an unused character (I used !).
Demarcating with a "," will not work, because some of the entries contain a comma.

1a) Now read.csv FLOWSHEETROWDIM as a csv file with sep = '!' (or whatever separation character you used.
Make sure that the dimensions of the file are 48444 by 9. If they are something different, you have not
parsed your txt file appropriately, or are parsing the wrong file.

2) Get a section of the FLOWSHEETVALUEFACT.csv on some virtual machine or external harddrive (password protected).
This will likely require contacting CTSI.

3) Get preliminary information on your large FLOWSHEETVALUEFACT.csv file using the following programs:

  get_rows - this gets you the row number of the huge file you're working with. This is important because it
makes opening a connection to the file alot easier.

  piper - this function applies other functions to chunks of the file, aggregates the results, and returns them.
We use it because you likely can't read the entire file at once. If you can, just use that instead.

  piper_unique_pts - this function returns the list of patients when combined with piper.

  piper_pt_extract - this function returns an extract of FLOWSHEETVALUEFACT.csv containing all the information on
a list of patients (that you enter). It extracts all the relevant information for those patients.

  pt_batch - this function takes a list of patients, and returns and list of batches of 25 of those patients, eg.,
it breaks up the list of patients into groups of 25.

  pt_scrape - this function combine piper, piper_pt_extract, and pt_batch to scrape all of FLOWSHEETVALUEFACT.csv into
batches of 25 patients. It then writes those batches into .csv files. It is modular - ie, you can start and stop in
the middle of running it so that you don't need to rerun things over again.

4) You need to do that for lab values as well with LAB.csv or whatever lab file you have.
Unfortunately, the files are slightly different and so you need a different piper and a different pt_extract.

You should find these functions in the Prelim FLOWSHEET Funcs.R file.
So, get the number of rows, then get the number of unique patients, and then scrape the FLOWSHEETVALUEFACT.csv file, so
that you can load small parts of it to check your work. Ideally, you will not have to work with FLOWSHEETVALUEFACT.csv
again after you have scraped the whole thing. By the end of these three steps, you should have a table for the ROWDIM.txt
file, and a folder on your computer, external hard-drive, or virtual machine containing csv files with pieces of the
VALUEFACT file with info for 25 patients on each of them.
